In this lecture we're going to go ahead and add some finishing touches to our book to really make it
pop.
So first off we're going to go ahead and add a little bit more of an edge to this gem piece and the
way we'll do that is we're going to add a new layer underneath that then we're going to go ahead and
select the shape of this by holding down control or command and selecting the thumbnail shape and then
we're going to go ahead and select the great that our piece is made out of.
And then we're going to go ahead and grab an even Durka version.
That's a really close to our blacks that will go ahead and fill that in then using the arrow keys on
a keyboard we're going to go ahead and nudge that down to about there.
Now that's actually not looking dark enough for me.
So what I'm going to do is I'm not hit control you or command you and I'm going to Durkan that to about
there.
OK next.
Let's go ahead and paint an edge to the book cover.
Because right now it looks really thin because we can't really see an edge on it.
So what I'll do is I'm going to select the color of my book and then I'm going to go ahead and grab
a little tiny bit of a lighter version of that color some maybe two right there.
OK.
And I'm going to come down to my book cover layer and I'm going to add a new layer above that.
So that way if I want to change anything about this it doesn't affect my other layers than using my
brush to go ahead and just hand paint in a wedge in there.
So right across here we can go ahead and hold down shift and paint it crossed.
So we get a nice straight line but then we want to go in there by hand and sort of make that edge a
little bit more organic by hand painting it in.
Now we'll go ahead and paint down here.
Now at this point I'm going to go ahead and bring down the lightness of this just a tiny bit so maybe
two there and I'll go and paint this edge and I will go ahead painted this edge and rehearsal hold down
shift to get across there not go ahead.
Paint and a little bit more of an organic shape on there.
Let's go ahead and zoom out.
See how that looks.
All right.
I think that looks much better next.
Let's go ahead and add in some scratches onto our book surface because I think this will make it look
much more interesting.
Also someone add a new layer above the law or we just created and then I'm going to go ahead and select
this dark red color down here on my book spine and then on the top surface I'll go ahead and just paint
in some very simple lines for scratches so that might be a little bit too dark.
So I want to bring my brush opacity down to 50 percent and then I'm going go ahead and just paint in
some lines so not to be perfect.
Maybe in some spots in there then I'm going to go ahead and grab an even darker version of this.
And in fact I'm going to come all the way down to black and I'm going add in a few little scratches
on the spine of my book.
And then what we want to do is we want to go in there with a lighter color.
So let's select this color on our book spine and then what we want to do is we just want to go ahead
and paint right along the edge of these scratches.
Go and do the same thing right here.
We want to do this for all of the scratches and spots that we added to our book cover.
Now this is looking a little bit too light on our book's spine.
So what I'm going to do is I'm to bring my brush opacity down to 20 percent that way.
It's a little bit lighter down here on the book's spine.
All right.
Great.
Let's go ahead and zoom out and see how that looks.
So now we have a little bit more texture in there.
I think that looks really good.
Next let's go ahead and add a little bit of detail in between our pages.
So what we want to do is add a few pages that look like they're sticking it out of our book.
So the way we'll do that is we're going to go in there with a brush tool and I'm going to select this
like color that we have here for our book and on a new layer I'm going to go ahead and brush in sort
of some pages sticking out of here.
I want to make sure I'm at 100 percent opacity and it's OK if the shape is imperfect because we can
always go back in there and you race.
So get to add one page sort of sticking out like this.
Go ahead and fill that in.
I want to go ahead and add a few more down here so maybe one coming across like this.
And another one sticking out right here.
Then using my eraser on going go ahead and just erase away so that these become more of a hard edged
line.
Same with this one can hold them shift to click across there.
That way we get a nice hard edge.
The same thing here.
Great.
Then I'm going to go ahead and use my lasso tool for this part.
So I get a really nice straight line and I'm going to cut across the top edges of these so that they're
going at the same angle as my pages then hit delete.
And that's going to make it look like the pages are actually coming out of the book.
Mostly we'll do this one.
Great.
So now we have some pages you can out of the book.
Next what we need to do is each one of these pages need a little bit more of some châteaux.
Now this one right here I'm actually not really liking how far it's sticking out so don't go ahead and
erase that just a little bit more until I get it to my liking.
All right.
I think that works much better.
So I'm going to add a layer underneath this layer and then using the color black because we wanted to
match this shadow right here from the top part of our book.
We're going to go ahead and paint in some shapes that are very similar to the shapes right here.
And we want to make sure that they're going downwards instead of coming out.
And we want to make sure that each corner is touching the corner of our shadow so our shadow needs to
be touching the corner of this page and come down like this and it's OK if your shape isn't perfect
because again we can go back in there and erase it and use or lasso tool to get the shape looking the
way we want it.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and use our research tool and we're going to go ahead and erase away the areas we
don't want and we'll go ahead and also reshape the shape of our shadows so this guy might come over
a little bit more like this
perfect.
Now let's go ahead and bring down the opacity on these two about what's.
And 90 percent and use my research tool and coming to a hard edged brush or soft edged brush sorry.
I'm going to go ahead and erase away these bottom edges like I did up here.
Now you want to be a racing at 20 percent capacity so you're not completely racing in a way.
And these ones might actually even be a little bit lighter so we might even do two overpasses of a race
in that let's go and zoom out see how that looks.
Those look a little bit too hard to me.
So what I want to do is to bring down the opacity a tiny bit.
I know they don't match the shadow up here but I think they look better when they're lighter.
All right.
Great.
Next let's go ahead and add a ribbon bookmark sticking out of here.
So I'm going to add a new layer above these layers and then I'm going go ahead and select a red color.
So when it come into sort of my reddish purplish colors and I want to grab a darker red but I want it
to be pretty saturated still so maybe somewhere in here.
OK.
Then using my brush to go ahead and paint in the shape of my ribbon bookmark.
So maybe something like this should work.
Great.
Now I don't really like the placement so don't go ahead and use my grab move tool.
Move this over.
We can also go ahead and use the word tool so we'll use a transform right click.
Come to work.
And we can go ahead and work this a little bit more until it sort of shaped a little bit more the way
we want it.
We'll go ahead and enter.
And now we're going to go ahead and go in there with our race to what we're going to erase the shape
out a little bit more.
I want to make sure I'm on a hard edged brush.
It is a race edge a little bit more.
I was a little bit too much
and then I'm a go ahead and use this edge
and then use my Lasso tool I can go ahead and clip out more of a hard edge for this snake tongue my
delete.
All right.
Perfect.
So now you have the shape for our ribbon.
Next will we want to do is you want to kind of off this top edge so that it's all lined up with the
angle of our pages.
What do we eat.
So now it looks like it's actually coming out of the book next.
Let's go ahead and add in some highlights and here to make this look more realistic.
So I'm going to go ahead and select the shape of my layer.
Now you can do this on a clipping layer mask to make it more accurate.
But in this case I think it will be fine.
So now what I want to do is I'm going to go ahead and select my red color.
I'm going to grab an even lighter version of this quite a bit lighter actually.
So about there should I do then using my brush to bring in my brush opacity down to 10 percent.
I'm going to go ahead and slowly layer in my highlight.
So I want to add a little bit of some highlight or reflection down here at the bottom because this is
going to be a little bit glossy.
That's why we're adding this in.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and unselect that see how that looks great.
I think that looks better than I'm going to go ahead and select the shape and then add a new layer underneath
it and I'm going to go ahead and select my original red color that I had for it and I'm going to grab
an even darker version of that.
So about there should be good maybe even darker.
I'm going to go and fill that shapen on this new layer.
So it's underneath there you can't see it yet.
But if I nudged down using my arrow keys you'll see you can just barely see it now.
Going a merger over to the left also.
So that way it gives the ribbon a little bit more of an edge and more of a three dimensional look.
Now I can go ahead and merge my two ribbon layers together.
So the top layer and this bottom layer Let's go and zoom out and see how our book looks all together.
Great.
Now the last thing I want to do is I want to go ahead and add a little bit of a shadow underneath this
book so it stands out a little bit more.
So what I want to do is I want to go ahead and select all the layers that are making up my book then
I'm going to go ahead and hit Control J to make a copy of all those layers right click them and merge
them together.
So now we have a merge version but we also still have all of our original layer pieces.
So now this what we want to do is we want to go ahead and select the shape of it.
Then we're going to go ahead and fill that in with a black on a new layer.
So I'm to go ahead and select the color black.
Fill that in.
At this point we can go out and delete this copy merge layer because we don't need to any longer.
And then we're going to go ahead and drag this black colored inversion all the way down to the bottom
and bring it to there.
So now you can't see it but if we go ahead use or nudge arrow keys we can go ahead and nudge that out
a little bit and then I'm going to come up to filter and then come down to blur.
And then we want to come down to guanine Blar then we want to bring that down because that's blurred
way too much.
So maybe two about there will hit OK.
And we're going to nudge that down a little bit further so we can see a little bit more of that shadow.
We also want to nudge a little bit more over to the left side.
Perfect.
I think that looks pretty good.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and use or Transform Tool and then we're going
to right click and come to work.
And what I want to do is I want to work this bottom area a little bit so that it's leaning more up with
this ribbon.
But then we also want to pull this out so it comes back to its normal position.
So about there should be good.
We'll go ahead and hit enter.
Then using my race tool and I want to make sure I'm on a soft edged brush.
I'm going to raise some of these areas that shouldn't have shadows.
So the only places that should have the shadow are the surfaces that are touching the surface.
It's sitting on.
So up here there shouldn't be a shadow because that's actually above the surface.
Same way over here this book spine.
And we can bring down our opacity to 20 percent to slowly layer this in so that way we get more of a
soft edge on our race.
All right.
Great.
Let's go and zoom out and see how that looks.
I think that looks much better.
That brings us to the end of this lecture in the end of this project.
So in this project we went ahead and created this entire portion book that looks relatively realistic
at least for again.
And we also added in some realistic things such as these cast shadows these paper sticking out and we
even added in some scratches on the top surface of our book just to give it some more texture.
I really hope you enjoyed this project and I'm really looking forward to seeing you in the next one.
Thanks for watching.